So yeah, super straightforward.
Our job is to find the button,
create an observable
from the button, subscribe to the button.
And then upon subscribing,
whenever we hear an event,
add a very simple notification to the DOM.
So we know that from event.
Can take an HTML element and
then what we wanna listen for.
Now, the interesting part here, is just an
event listener will theoretically register
should the event whether or
not you stored in a variable or not.
And then you have to do
all that stuff like cool.
If you ever want to remove
that event listener,
you better have stored that
function into a variable.
So then you can remove the reference to
that function from the event listener,
so on and so forth.
Right, from event seeks to
protect you from all of
that fun stuff with event listeners,
and kind of encapsulate that.
So now, you can create your stream, you
can subscribe and unsubscribe as its own
separate thing you'll get back an object
that will allow you to unsubscribe so
on so forth.
So here we'll say,
I'll call button clicks,
that seems like a really good name for
this observable.
And so what we'll say is,
we'll subscribe to it in this case.
The button clicks, and we'll subscribe.
And we'll say when that happens,
we want to add the message to DOM, cool.
All right, and so
let's just make sure that that works.
So we'll go here to generating observables
from events, except I will use
the one that is local cuz if I use
the production one, what's gonna happen.
And we can see, we get what we
think we're going to get here,
which is when the click happens it will
go ahead and run the listener, right?
We could theoretically take this and
do other things with it as well.
So, if we wanted to go in here, and
we want to say, okay, not only that,
but I would also log it to the console or
we could even alert.
Yeah, let's alert, why not?
Right, so, we have one stream
have events happening, and
then we can subscribe to
multiple things in this case.
Now we'll go ahead we'll refresh,
you can see that I get the alert,
and also I get the notification
on the page as well.
As a bunch of other things
that we'll do as time goes on.
Clearly the ability to click buttons and
interact with the UI is,
a thing that is kinda core to what
we all do building user interfaces.
So we will kind of play with this more and
a little bit, but right now,
we're kinda just building out that
tool set of fundamentals in this case.